Feat/transport server sni (#6605)
nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress: examples/custom-resources/transport-server-sni/README.md

# TransportServer SNI

In this example we create two different TransportServers that listen on the same interface, which are distinguished by their Host field.

## Create a GlobalConfiguration resource with the following listener

```yaml
     listeners:
      - name: tcp-listener
        port: 7000 
        protocol: TCP
```

## Add a custom port to the NGINX Ingress Controller pod with the Helm chart

```yaml
controller.customPorts:
    - name: port
      containerPort: 7000
      protocol: TCP
```

## Add a custom port to the NGINX Ingress Controller service

```yaml
controller.service.customPorts:
          - name: tcp-port 
            port: 7000 
            protocol: TCP
            targetPort: 7000 

> ```

Reviewer: consistent indentation of the yaml

Author: Missed this thanks

`kubectl apply -f cafe-secret.yaml`
`kubectl apply -f mongo-secret.yaml`

## Create the mongo and tcp echo example applications

`kubectl apply -f mongo.yaml`
`kubectl apply -f tcp-echo-server.yaml`

## Wait until these are ready

`kubectl get deploy -w`

## Create the TransportServers for each application

`kubectl apply -f cafe-transport-server.yaml`
`kubectl apply -f mongo-transport-server.yaml`

## Ensure they are in valid state

`kubectl get ts`

```bash
NAME       STATE   REASON           AGE
cafe-ts    Valid   AddedOrUpdated   2m
mongo-ts   Valid   AddedOrUpdated   2m
```

## Set up /etc/hosts or DNS

This example uses a local NGINX Ingress Controller instance, so the /etc/hosts file
is being used to set cafe.example.com and mongo.example.com to localhost.
In a production instance, the server names would be set at the DNS layer.
`cat /etc/hosts`

```bash
...
127.0.0.1 cafe.example.com
127.0.0.1 mongo.example.com
```

## Expose port 7000 of the LoadBalancer service

`kubectl port-forward svc/my-release-nginx-ingress-controller 7000:7000`

## Use `ncat` to ping cafe.example.com on port 7000 with SSL

> `ncat --ssl cafe.example.com 7000`

Reviewer: Netcat binary is `nc` by default?

When you write a message you should receive the following response:

```bash
hi
hi
```

Close the connection (CTRL+ c), then view the NGINX Ingress Controller logs.

The request and response should both be 2 bytes.

```bash
127.0.0.1 [24/Sep/2024:15:48:58 +0000] TCP 200 3 3 2.702 "-
```

## Use mongosh to connect to the mongodb container through the TransportServer on port 7000

> `mongosh --host mongo.example.com --port 7000 --tls --tlsAllowInvalidCertificates`

Reviewer: should we advise users that they need to install `mongosh` ?

Author: Yeah that makes sense. I've added instructions to the top of the reademe now for `ncat` (from nmap) and `mongosh` from the mongo docs.

# TransportServer SNI

In this example we create two different TransportServers that listen on the same interface, which are distinguished by their Host field.

1. Create a GlobalConfiguration resource with the following listener.

```yaml
     listeners:
      - name: tcp-listener
        port: 7000 
        protocol: TCP
```

> 1. Add a custom port to the NIC pod via the helm chart

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Add a custom port to the NGINX Ingress Controller pod with the Helm chart.
```

```yaml
controller.customPorts:
    - name: port
      containerPort: 7000
      protocol: TCP
```

> 1. Add a custom port to the NIC service

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Add a custom port to the NGINX Ingress Controller service.
```

```yaml
controller.service.customPorts:
          - name: tcp-port 
            port: 7000 
            protocol: TCP
            targetPort: 7000 
```

> 1. Create the cafe-secret, and mongo-secret. These secrets are used for TLS in the TransportServers

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Use `kubectl` to create the cafe-secret, and mongo-secret. These secrets are used for TLS in the TransportServers.
```

`kubectl apply -f cafe-secret.yaml`
`kubectl apply -f mongo-secret.yaml`

> 1. Create the mongo and tcp echo example applications

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Create the mongo and tcp echo example applications
```

`kubectl apply -f mongo.yaml`
`kubectl apply -f tcp-echo-server.yaml`

> 1. Wait until these are ready.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6. Wait until these are ready.
```

`kubectl get deploy -w`

> 1. Create the TransportServers for each application

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
7. Create the TransportServers for each application.
```

`kubectl apply -f cafe-transport-server.yaml`
`kubectl apply -f mongo-transport-server.yaml`

> 1. Ensure they are in valid state

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
8. Ensure they are in valid state.
```

`kubectl get ts`

```bash
NAME       STATE   REASON           AGE
cafe-ts    Valid   AddedOrUpdated   2m
mongo-ts   Valid   AddedOrUpdated   2m
```

> 1. Set up /etc/hosts or DNS

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
9. Set up /etc/hosts or DNS
```

> In this example I am running NIC locally, so I will set
> cafe.example.com and mongo.example.com in my /etc/hosts to localhost
> If running NIC as a live service, the server names would be set at the DNS layer

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This example uses a local NGINX Ingress Controller instance, so the /etc/hosts file
is being used to set cafe.example.com and mongo.example.com to localhost.
In a production instance, the server names would be set at the DNS layer.
```

`cat /etc/hosts`

```bash
...
127.0.0.1 cafe.example.com
127.0.0.1 mongo.example.com
```

> 1. Expose port 7000 of the NIC Loadbalancer Service

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
10. Expose port 7000 of the LoadBalancer Service
```

In context, no need to keep mentioning the controller.

`k port-forward svc/my-release-nginx-ingress-controller 7000:7000`

> 1. Use ncat to ping cafe.example.com on port 7000 with ssl

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
11. Use ncat to ping cafe.example.com on port 7000 with ssl
```

`ncat --ssl cafe.example.com 7000`

> When you write a message you should get sent back

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you write a message you should receive the following response:
```

```bash
hi
hi
```

> And once the connection is closed (ctrl + c) you should see the request and response in the NIC logs are both 2 bytes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Close the connection (CTRL+ c), then view the NGINX Ingress Controller logs.

The request and response should both be 2 bytes.
```

```bash
127.0.0.1 [24/Sep/2024:15:48:58 +0000] TCP 200 3 3 2.702 "-
```

> 1. Use mongosh to connect to the mongodb container, via the TransportServer, also on port 7000

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
12. Use mongosh to connect to the mongodb container through the TransportServer on port 7000.
```
